## Authentication

The Notification Server supports out of the box openid-connect.
It can also be integrated with a client-side Identity and Authorization service. This allows the identity and credentials of the receivers of the notifications to be confirmed, ensuring that each notification goes to the correct end user.


## Receiving Events

Glue42 Notification Server receives events generated by business applications of the client through API implemented over Kafka.

Events can be created and canceled.
To cancel multiple events at once same correlation id should be used when created.


Each event can have following data structure:

<!-- from iris-api/src/main/java/com/tick42/iris/api/Event -->

* id
* type
* source
* creationTime
* recipient (user id)
* correlationId
* title
* description
* expiresAt
* cancelMode
* severity
* canBeSnoozed
* expiresAt
* retries
    - times
    - schedule
* actions
    - type
    - caption
    - execution

### Executions

* VisitURI
* RestAPICall
* OpenApplication
* OpenChat

### Demo App

There is an example `demo-app` that demonstrates creating and canceling notification events via REST api.

## Generating notifications

Upon receiving an event, notification generation is triggered, and its status is set to “active”. The behavior of the notification is defined by the metadata of the triggering event.

Once created, changes in the status of the notification are made on only 2 occasions:

An end user takes the required action in the receiving desktop application, changing its status to "complete" or "snoozed".

The notification expires, changing its status to “expired”.

This means that even if the receiver (end user) of the notification is not online, or restarts their machine, the notification list will be kept, and they can retrieve it upon log in. The UX/UI for the retrieval will depend on the solution of the client’s software development team.

## Distributing notifications

End users receive notifications on their desktop via the Glue42 platform notification center. It is possible notifications to be received on other 3rd party applications such as Symphony, MS Teams, email, as well as directly to the user’s desktop via the standard Windows Action Centre, but that would require a new Notification Sender (publisher) to be developed (for example see `iris-demo-publisher`).